ATP 3-21.8 Infantry Rifle Platoon and Squad (11 Jan 2024) - DOGRULANMIS ALINTILAR
(Kullanici yapistirmasi, 3.6 MB tam metin; sadece ilgili paragraflar. Kaynak: kullanici PDF'i.)

== Hareket formasyonlari (para 3-38, 3-41, 3-42) ==
composed of two variables: lateral frontage, represented by the line formation; and
depth, represented by the column formation. The advantages attributed to one of these
variables are disadvantages to the other. Leaders combine the elements of lateral
frontage and depth to determine the best formation for their situation. In addition to the
line and column/file, the other five types of formations—box, vee, wedge, diamond, and
echelon—combine these elements to varying degrees. Each does so with different
degrees of emphasis resulting in unique advantages and disadvantages.
MOVEMENT CONSIDERATIONS
...
with more than one lead element, as a general rule, are better for achieving fire
superiority—the dominating fires of one force over another force that permits that force
to maneuver at a given time and place without prohibitive interference by the other
(FM 3-90)—to the front but are more difficult to control. Conversely, the formations
with only one lead element are easier to control but are not as useful for achieving fire
superiority to the front.
3-42. Leaders attempt to maintain flexibility in their formations. Doing so enables them
to react when unexpected enemy actions occur. The line, echelon, and column
formations are the least flexible of the seven formations. The line formation masses fires
to the front but has vulnerable flanks. The echelon is optimized for a flank threat,
something units want to avoid. The column has difficulty reinforcing an element in
contact. Leaders using these formations should consider ways to reduce the risks
associated with their general lack of flexibility. For example, by expanding or
contracting the formation depending on the terrain.
3-43. During movement, every squad and Soldier has a standard position within a

== Fire team wedge (3-46/47): aralik normalde 10 m, arazide daralir ==
3-46. The wedge (see figure 3-2) is the basic formation of the fire team. The interval
between Soldiers in the wedge formation is normally 10 meters. The wedge expands and
contracts depending on the terrain. Fire teams modify the wedge when encountering
rough terrain, poor visibility, or other factors make control of the wedge difficult. The
normal interval is reduced so all team members still can see their team leader and all
team leaders still can see their squad leader. The sides of the wedge can contract to the
point where the wedge resembles a single file. Soldiers expand or resume their original
positions when moving in less rugged terrain where control is easier.

== Squad column (3-53): intikal icin ana formasyon; squad line (3-54): saldiri/on-saldiri ==
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 3-15
Squad Column
3-53. The squad column is the squad’s main formation for movement unless preparing
for an assault—a short and violent well-ordered attack against a local objective
(FM 3-90). (See figure 3-4.) It provides good dispersion both laterally and in-depth
without sacrificing control. It also facilitates maneuver. The lead fire team is the base
fire team. Squads can move in either a column wedge (squad column-team wedge) or a
modified column wedge. A modified column wedge occurs when rough terrain, poor
visibility, and other factors require the squad to modify the wedge into a file for control
purposes. As the terrain becomes less rugged and control becomes easier, the Soldiers
resume their original positions.

== Disengagement / displacement (5-35..5-42) ==
DISENGAGEMENT CRITERIA
5-35. Disengagement criteria are the protocols that specify those circumstances where
a friendly force must break contact with the direct fire and observed indirect fire to avoid
becoming decisively engaged or to preserve friendly combat power (FM 3-90). It
dictates to subordinate elements the circumstances, in which they will displace to
alternate, supplementary, or subsequent positions. The criteria are tied to an enemy
action, such as an enemy unit advancing past a certain phase line. They also are linked
to the friendly situation. For example, the criteria might depend on whether artillery or
an overwatch element can engage the enemy. Disengagement criteria are developed for
each specific situation.
DISPLACEMENT CRITERIA
5-36. Displacement criteria define triggers for planned withdrawals, passage of lines, or
reconnaissance handovers (battle handover for security operations) between units. As
with engagement, disengagement, and bypass criteria, the conditions and parameters set
in displacement criteria integrate the leader’s intent with tactical feasibility. Conditions
and parameters are event-driven, time-driven, or enemy-driven. Displacement criteria
conditions and parameters are key rehearsal events due to the criticality of identifying
the triggers to anticipate during the mission. An example of event-driven conditions and
parameters are associated priority intelligence requirements (PIRs) being met, enemy
contact not expected in the area, and observed named area of interest (NAI) or avenue
of approach denied to the enemy. Time-driven conditions and parameters ensure the
time triggers are met (for example, latest time information is of value). An observation
post compromised by threat or local civilian contact is a threat-driven condition. Failure
to dictate conditions and parameters of displacement, nested within the higher scheme
of maneuver, results in mission failure.
DISENGAGEMENT AND DISPLACEMENT PLANNING
5-37. Disengagement and displacement allow the platoon to retain its flexibility and
tactical agility in the defense. For example, retrogrades (see section IV) are conducted
to improve a tactical situation or preventing a worse situation from developing. Platoons
usually conduct retrogrades as part of a larger force but may conduct independent
Defense
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 5-11
retrogrades (withdrawal) as required during defensive operations. The ultimate goals of
disengagement and displacement are to enable the platoon to avoid being fixed or
decisively engaged by the enemy. The overarching factor in a displacement is to
maintain a mobility advantage over the enemy. The platoon leader must consider several
important factors in displacement planning. These factors include, among others:
 The enemy situation, for example, an enemy attack with one company-size
enemy unit might prevent the platoon from disengaging.
 Disengagement criteria (see paragraph 5-35).
 Availability of direct fire suppression that can support disengagement by
suppressing or disrupting the enemy.
 Availability of cover and concealment, indirect fires, and obscurants to assist
disengagement.
 Obstacle integration, including situational obstacles.
 Positioning of forces on terrain that provides an advantage to the disengaging
elements such as linear obstacles.
 Identification of displacement routes and times when disengagement or
displacement will take place. Routes and times are rehearsed.
 The size of the friendly force that must be available to engage the enemy in
support of the displacing unit.

== Withdrawal (5-183..5-201) ==
WITHDRAWAL
5-183. Withdraw is to disengage from an enemy force and move in a direction away
from the enemy (ADP 3-90). Withdrawal is a planned retrograde operation, which a
force in contact disengages from an enemy force and moves away from the enemy.
Although the leader avoids withdrawing from action under enemy pressure, it is not
always possible. Withdrawal is used to preserve the force or release it for a new mission.
5-184. Withdrawals are inherently dangerous. They involve moving units to the rear
and away from what is usually a stronger enemy force. The heavier the previous fighting
and closer the contact with the enemy, the more difficult the withdrawal. Units usually
confine rearward movement to times and conditions when the advancing enemy force
cannot observe the activity or easily detect the operation. Operations security is critical,
particularly during the initial stages of a withdrawal when most of the functional and
sustainment forces displace. (See ATP 3-21.10 for additional information.)
Defense
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 5-65
PLANNING A WITHDRAWAL
...
WITHDRAWAL UNDER PRESSURE
5-193. In a withdrawal under enemy pressure, all units withdraw simultaneously when
available routes allow, using delaying tactics to fight their way to the rear. When
simultaneous withdrawal of all forces is not practical, (for example, when the platoon
cannot prepare and position the security force, it conducts a fighting withdrawal) the
platoon leader decides the order of withdrawal. Soldiers and squads not in contact are
withdrawn first to provide suppressive fire and to allow Soldiers and squads (or teams)
in contact to withdraw. Several factors influence this decision:
 Subsequent missions.
 Availability of transportation assets and routes.
 Disposition of friendly and enemy forces.
 Level and nature of enemy pressure.
 Degree of urgency associated with the withdrawal.
METHODS OF DISENGAGEMENT
5-194. Based on the OPORD, the unit may be required to retain defensive positions
and to remain and fight for a certain amount of time, or it may be required to
disengage—a tactical mission task in which a unit breaks contact with an enemy to
conduct another mission or to avoid becoming decisively engaged (FM 3-90)—and
displace to subsequent positions. A platoon, as part of a company, may disengage to
defend from another battle position, prepare for a counterattack, delay, withdraw, or
prepare for another mission.
Fire and Movement
5-195. Fire and movement to the rear is the basic method for disengaging. All available
fires are used to slow the enemy and allow platoons to move away. The company
commander may move subordinate platoons and mass fires to stop or slow the enemy
advance before beginning the movement away from the enemy.
5-196. Using bounding overwatch, a base of fire is formed to cover platoons or squads
moving away from the enemy. One platoon or squad acts as the base of fire, delaying
the enemy with fire or retaining terrain blocking the advance, while other platoons or
squads disengage (see figure 5-18).
5-197. Moving platoons or squads get to their next position and provide a base of fire
to cover the rearward movement of forward platoons and squads. Fire and movement is
repeated until contact with the enemy is broken, the platoons pass through a different
base-of-fire force, or the platoons are in position to resume their defense.
Defense
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 5-69
Figure 5-18. Bounding overwatch to the rear
Plan for Disengagement
5-198. Tactics used by the platoon to disengage from the enemy differ according to the
company commander’s plan for disengagement, how the platoon is deployed, and other
factors. The following actions apply in all cases:
 Maximum use is made of the terrain to cover rearward movement. Squads
back out of position and move, attempting to keep a terrain feature between
them and the enemy.
 Rapid movement and effective base of fire enhance mobility and are key to a
successful disengagement.
5-199. Plans for disengagement may be part of any defensive plan. When squads are
separated, there are three ways they can disengage: by squads and fire teams; by thinning
the lines when they must cover their own movement; or simultaneously when they are
covered by another force.
Squads and Fire Teams
5-200. When the rifle platoon must cover their own movement, (for example) two
squads may stay in position as a base of fire. The third squad and weapons squad then
move to the rear (crew-served weapons move based on the platoon leader’s assessment
of when they could best move). The squads left in position must fire into the entire
element’s sector to cover the movement of the other squad(s). Sectors of fire are adjusted
for better coverage of the element’s sector. The moving squad may displace by squad or
as fire teams depending on the enemy’s effective fires or because there are two squads
Chapter 5
5-70 ATP 3-21.8 11 January 2024
covering their movement. The squads left in position sequentially disengage. Movement
to the rear by alternating squads continues until contact is broken.
Thinning the Lines
5-201. When disengaging by thinning the lines, selected Soldiers from each fire team
(usually one Soldier from each fighting position) disengage and move to the rear (see
figure 5-19). The Soldiers still in position become the base of fire to cover the
movement.
Figure 5-19. Disengagement by thinning the lines

== NOT ==
- Echelon LEFT/RIGHT yonu bu belgede TANIMLI DEGIL (sadece "echelon yan tehdit icin optimize", 3-42).
- Geri cekilme icin sayisal mesafe/sure YOK (450 m / 300 sn / 90 sn kodda TASARIM kalir).
